README.md, before:

# JSON RPC Client Stream

JSON RPC 2.0 client implementation with streaming I/O and event driven API for
endpoint implementers. For corresponding server implementation see
[json-rpc-server-stream](https://github.com/claudijo/json-rpc-server-stream).

## JSON RPC 2.0 Architecture

The [JSON RPC 2.0 protocol](http://www.jsonrpc.org/specification) uses a
client-server-architecture, in contrast to the peer-to-peer oriented 1.0
version, where peers act as both clients and server. However, it is still
possible to use JSON RPC 2.0 in a peer-to-peer fashion.

### Using JSON RPC 2.0 in a Peer-to-peer Fashion

A server and client pair must be installed on each node in order to use JSON RPC
2.0 in a peer-to-peer fashion. Additionally, full-duplex communication between
node endpoint is required, for instance using
[WebSockets](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/WebSockets_API).
The question then becomes: How to separate incoming requests from incoming
responses?

This problem could be handled by the protocol implementation, since it is quite
straight forward to separate well-formed requests from well-formed responses.
Consequently, messages could be inspected by the implementation and either be
handled as requests or as responses. However, such an approach is not optimal –
It violates the idea of _separation of concerns_. Furthermore, there are
malformed JSON RPC 2.0 messages, such as an empty array `"[]"`, that cannot be
distinguished as a malformed request that requires an error response or a
malformed response that should be left unanswered.

A better approach when a JSON RPC 2.0 server and client on the same node share a
common bidirectional channel is to multiplex and demultiplex (mux/demux) the
transmission, so that each message only hits the intended endpoint
implementation. The module
[mux-demux-stream](https://github.com/claudijo/mux-demux-stream) can be used to
achieve this.

## Installation

```js
npm install json-rpc-client-stream
```

## Usage

Create a JSON RPC client stream and emit requests or notifications.

Do some stream plumbing, such as: Readable connection stream -> RPC client ->
Writable connection stream.

As mentioned above, it is recommended to pipe the streaming JSON RPC 2.0 server
and client through a mux/demux before piping it to a channel stream if using
JSON RPC 2.0 in a peer-to-peer fashion.

### jsonRpcClientStream()

The module exports a factory function that returns a JSON RPC client stream
instance, which is a
[duplex stream](https://nodejs.org/api/stream.html#stream_class_stream_duplex).

### jsonRpcClientStreamInstance.rpc.emit(method[, parameters][, callback])

Emit an RPC `method` with an optional `parameters` argument. If the RPC expects a
response (i.e a request) pass in a response `callback`. The callback will be called
with an `error` argument and a `result` argument. If the response callback is
omitted, the RPC does not expect an response (i.e a notification).

### Batch RPC call
Emitting several RPC request within the same event loop will result in a batch
request, where all the requests are sent at the same time.

## Basic Example

The following example shows the basic use cases for a JSON RPC 2.0 Client.

```js
var jsonRpcClientStream = require('json-rpc-client-stream');

// A request
jsonRpcClientStream.rpc.emit('divide', { denominator: 2, numerator: 4 },
    function(err, result) {
  if (err) return console.error(err);

  console.log(result);
});

// A notification
jsonRpcClientStream.rpc.emit('log', 'All is good');
```

## Advanced Example
The following example shows how to implement a JSON RPC 2.0 client and server
in the browser where websockets are used as a shared bi-directional channel, with
multiplexed and demultiplexed transmission. Additional modules
[json-rpc-server-stream](https://github.com/claudijo/json-rpc-server-stream),
[websocket-connection-stream](https://github.com/claudijo/websocket-connection-stream),
and [mux-demux-stream](https://github.com/claudijo/mux-demux-stream) are used.

```js
var ws = new WebSocket('ws://localhost:8080');
var connectionStream = require('websocket-connection-stream')().attach(ws);

var jsonRpcServerStream = require('json-rpc-server-stream')();
var jsonRpcClientStream = require('json-rpc-client-stream')();
var mux = require('mux-demux-stream');

mux(jsonRpcServerStream, jsonRpcClientStream)
  .pipe(websocketConnectionStream)
  .demux(jsonRpcServerStream, jsonRpcClientStream);

jsonRpcClientStream.rpc.emit('join', { roomId: 'roomA'}, function(err, result) {
  if (err) return console.error(err)

  jsonRpcClientStream.rpc.emit('chat', {
    to: 'roomA',
    from: 'Alice',
    message: 'Hi there'
  });
})

jsonRpcServerStream.rpc.on('chat', function(params) {
  console.log(params.from + ' says: ' + params.message);
});
```

## Related packages

* [json-rpc-server-stream](https://github.com/claudijo/json-rpc-server-stream)
* [websocket-connection-stream](https://github.com/claudijo/websocket-connection-stream)
* [mux-demux-stream](https://github.com/claudijo/mux-demux-stream)

## Test

Run unit tests;

`$ npm test`

Create test coverage report:

`$ npm run-script test-cov`

# License

[MIT](LICENSE)

Commit message:

Stream outgoing messages as new-line encoded json. Handle incoming stream as new-line encoded json.

README.md, after:

# JSON RPC Client Stream

JSON RPC 2.0 client implementation with streaming I/O and event driven API for
endpoint implementers. For corresponding server implementation see
[json-rpc-server-stream](https://github.com/claudijo/json-rpc-server-stream).

## Line-delimited JSON
Several individual incoming JSON encoded request responses or batch responses
are expected to be delimited with new line characters if sent in the same chunk.

JSON encoded messages (notifications, requests, and batches) are streamed with 
new line character `\n` as delimiter to the server, which enables sensible 
server side parsing even if several JSON encoded notification or request objects 
are streamed in the same chunk from the client. 

For gereral info about new line encoded JSON, see 
[http://jsonlines.org/](http://jsonlines.org/).

## JSON RPC 2.0 Architecture

The [JSON RPC 2.0 protocol](http://www.jsonrpc.org/specification) uses a
client-server-architecture, in contrast to the peer-to-peer oriented 1.0
version, where peers act as both clients and server. However, it is still
possible to use JSON RPC 2.0 in a peer-to-peer fashion.

### Using JSON RPC 2.0 in a Peer-to-peer Fashion

A server and client pair must be installed on each node in order to use JSON RPC
2.0 in a peer-to-peer fashion. Additionally, full-duplex communication between
node endpoint is required, for instance using
[WebSockets](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/WebSockets_API).
The question then becomes: How to separate incoming requests from incoming
responses?

This problem could be handled by the protocol implementation, since it is quite
straight forward to separate well-formed requests from well-formed responses.
Consequently, messages could be inspected by the implementation and either be
handled as requests or as responses. However, such an approach is not optimal –
It violates the idea of _separation of concerns_. Furthermore, there are
malformed JSON RPC 2.0 messages, such as an empty array `"[]"`, that cannot be
distinguished as a malformed request that requires an error response or a
malformed response that should be left unanswered.

A better approach when a JSON RPC 2.0 server and client on the same node share a
common bidirectional channel is to multiplex and demultiplex (mux/demux) the
transmission, so that each message only hits the intended endpoint
implementation. The module
[mux-demux-stream](https://github.com/claudijo/mux-demux-stream) can be used to
achieve this.

## Installation

```js
npm install json-rpc-client-stream
```

## Usage

Create a JSON RPC client stream and emit requests or notifications.

Do some stream plumbing, such as: Readable connection stream -> RPC client ->
Writable connection stream.

As mentioned above, it is recommended to pipe the streaming JSON RPC 2.0 server
and client through a mux/demux before piping it to a channel stream if using
JSON RPC 2.0 in a peer-to-peer fashion.

### jsonRpcClientStream()

The module exports a factory function that returns a JSON RPC client stream
instance, which is a
[duplex stream](https://nodejs.org/api/stream.html#stream_class_stream_duplex).

### jsonRpcClientStreamInstance.rpc.emit(method[, parameters][, callback])

Emit an RPC `method` with an optional `parameters` argument. If the RPC expects a
response (i.e a request) pass in a response `callback`. The callback will be called
with an `error` argument and a `result` argument. If the response callback is
omitted, the RPC does not expect an response (i.e a notification).

### Batch RPC call
Emitting several RPC request within the same event loop will result in a batch
request, where all the requests are sent at the same time.

## Basic Example

The following example shows the basic use cases for a JSON RPC 2.0 Client.

```js
var jsonRpcClientStream = require('json-rpc-client-stream');

// A request
jsonRpcClientStream.rpc.emit('divide', { denominator: 2, numerator: 4 },
    function(err, result) {
  if (err) return console.error(err);

  console.log(result);
});

// A notification
jsonRpcClientStream.rpc.emit('log', 'All is good');
```

## Advanced Example
The following example shows how to implement a JSON RPC 2.0 client and server
in the browser where websockets are used as a shared bi-directional channel, with
multiplexed and demultiplexed transmission. Additional modules
[json-rpc-server-stream](https://github.com/claudijo/json-rpc-server-stream),
[websocket-connection-stream](https://github.com/claudijo/websocket-connection-stream),
and [mux-demux-stream](https://github.com/claudijo/mux-demux-stream) are used.

```js
var ws = new WebSocket('ws://localhost:8080');
var connectionStream = require('websocket-connection-stream')().attach(ws);

var jsonRpcServerStream = require('json-rpc-server-stream')();
var jsonRpcClientStream = require('json-rpc-client-stream')();
var mux = require('mux-demux-stream');

mux(jsonRpcServerStream, jsonRpcClientStream)
  .pipe(websocketConnectionStream)
  .demux(jsonRpcServerStream, jsonRpcClientStream);

jsonRpcClientStream.rpc.emit('join', { roomId: 'roomA'}, function(err, result) {
  if (err) return console.error(err)

  jsonRpcClientStream.rpc.emit('chat', {
    to: 'roomA',
    from: 'Alice',
    message: 'Hi there'
  });
})

jsonRpcServerStream.rpc.on('chat', function(params) {
  console.log(params.from + ' says: ' + params.message);
});
```

## Related packages

* [json-rpc-server-stream](https://github.com/claudijo/json-rpc-server-stream)
* [websocket-connection-stream](https://github.com/claudijo/websocket-connection-stream)
* [mux-demux-stream](https://github.com/claudijo/mux-demux-stream)

## Test

Run unit tests;

`$ npm test`

Create test coverage report:

`$ npm run-script test-cov`

# License

[MIT](LICENSE)
